CODEBOOK for the Get Data project.
corresponding to the runanalysis.R script and the readme file in this same directory
This codebook will describe the variables used in the R script named above as well as the transfermation methods.

Raw Data:
Obtained from https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip
Contains observations on hundreds of variables for multiple subjects across 6 activities for data collected from Samsung 
smartphones.

The data was normalized across multiple files which described:
The subjects: this was split between the Test and Train user groups, subjects_test.txt and subjects_train.txt
The activities: this was also split between the Test and Train user groups, y_test.txt and y_train.txt.  However
the afore mentioned files only contained identifiers (1-6) which linked to a master file describing the activities, 
activity_labels.txt

For both Test and Train there was a third file containing the observations:
X_test.txt and X_train.txt

All test specific files are contained in the following directory:
getdata-projectfiles-UCI HAR Dataset\UCI HAR Dataset\test

All train specific files are contained in the following directory:
getdata-projectfiles-UCI HAR Dataset\UCI HAR Dataset\train

Files describing labels such as activities are contained in a parent directory:
getdata-projectfiles-UCI HAR Dataset\UCI HAR Dataset\


Getting and Transforming data:
1. Data from both Test and Train datasets are read in and combined with 
  a. Subjects
  b. Activities
2. Activity labels were replaced with their descriters
3. Column names were added to the combined data set.  For the variables, these names were pulled from the features.txt file
for both test and train.

4. Once the data is read in, the script eliminates columns that do not contain "mean" or "std" in their names.
this leaves a data frame with 88 columns (Subject, Activity, and 86 columns of variables)

5. The combined, cleaned, and subsetted data set is then passed to a function to calculate the Mean on each set of rows for
each subject and activity.  In other words, if there are multiple observations for Subject 1 for the activity of Walking, 
those observations are reduced to a single mean of those values.  Creating a data frame of 180 rows and 88 columns.


Columns (variables)
1. Subject - an numeric identifier of the person in the study that the results were obtained from
2. Activity - a descriptive identifier of what the subject was doing when the observation was recorded, i.e. Walking, Standing
3-88. the remaining variables are collected from the smartphone and are described in the files:
feature.txt and features_info.txt in the getdata-projectfiles-UCI HAR Dataset\UCI HAR Dataset\ directory.  
They contain calculations of Mean and Standard Deviations for various elements collected from the smartphone 
during the study.
